# LiDAR-frame

Implement a data clustering algorithm named DBSCAN - Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications with Noise. Given a large set of data points in a space of arbitrary dimension and given a distance metric, this algorithm can discover clusters of different shapes and sizes, marking as outliers isolated points in low-density regions (i.e. points whose nearest neighbors are too far away).

The intelligent vehicles of the future will be equipped with a multitude of sensors in order to capture information about the surrounding scene and thus be able to autonomously navigate. One of these sensors is the Laser Scanner or LiDAR (Light Detection And Ranging). Using LiDAR, the vehicle can scan the scene in front by sweeping a few laser beams (typically between 8 to 64 lasers).

Each time a laser beam hit an object, the laser light bounces back to the LiDAR from which a precise distance can be estimated. A complete scan of the scene with these lasers will therefore generate a large set of 3D points (also called point clouds) that correspond to the structure of the scene. The figure on the next pages shows a typical point cloud captured by a car equipped with a LiDAR; note that to facilitate the visualization, the points are color-coded based on their height with respect to the ground. A view of the same scene captured by a camera is also shown. As can be seen, each object in the scene will be represented by several 3D points. These objects’ points should form a cluster. The objective run the DBSCAN algorithm on a LiDAR point cloud in order to detect the objects around the vehicle.

Use the DBSCAN algorithm in order to cluster the points of a LiDAR frame. At the end of the process, each cluster should correspond to a scene object. You have to select the specific parameter values of the DBSCAN algorithm that seems to produce the best results but have to use the same parameters for the three datasets. The program takes as input the dataset filename and the value of the two DB-Scan parameters (eps, MinPts). As output, it produces a CSV file that will contain the point coordinates and corresponding cluster labels. An RGB color value, unique for each cluster, is also associated with each point; this color will be used to display the resulting clustered point cloud. Each RBG value is a number between 0.0 and 1.0. 
